it's very troubling when people make
videos that are
difficult and hard to understand
consistency is important rationality is
important
but it's also part of a mature
perspective on the world
a mature perspective on ethics to be
able to recognize
and talk about with detachment the
circumstances in which we
ourselves become hypocrites the
contradictions and paradoxes
that life in practice draws us into
in the wild that dog would kill and eat
you wild dogs kill and eat human beings
you think having a piglet as a pet is
cute
not only okay wild boar is in the white
you want to google this right now it'll
disturb the hell out of you
do a google search for wild boar eating
deer
in the wild pigs kill
and eat large mammals like deer
they are true omnivores they will kill a
deer
and strip the flesh off it raw
they will eat the corpse directly human
beings can't do that
you know human beings think of
themselves as omnivores but we're
physically incapable of tearing apart
and eating uh
you know a corpse like like a deer
or even a pig or what have you off the
ground if you know people
from the back woods they'll tell you in
the old days
when people would commit a murder one of
the easiest ways to cover it up
to destroy evidence to make it harder
for the police to investigate
was to take the human body and throw it
into a pig pen
domesticated pigs in a few hours would
tear apart the corpse and eat the flesh
off a human corpse
that's your cute cuddly pig what is it
that makes it so cute and cuddly
depriving it of the wilderness depriving
it of socialization with access to
members of its own species
you think it's cute for a human being to
hold a baby bottle
and feed a piglet i don't think that's
cute where's that pig's mother
right where's that pig's pack it's
social organization
a pig or a wolf grows up in a pack
that socializes it to have the instincts
and behaviors
that it needs to survive that it needs
to compete
within its own species that it needs to
ultimately
kill members of other species including
human beings
because we are naturally the enemies
of these other species in the wild
including pigs
including wild boars if you encounter a
wild boar or even a feral
boar in the woods it's terrifying
even if it's alone let alone in a pack
and you want to take this animal
and deprive it of its socialization
deprive it of its natural habitat
the private of its instincts and
ultimately deprive it of its sexuality
which one of the most uncomfortable
things to talk about right you think
your dog is happy
the dog that sleeps on your couch you
think that dog one
didn't want to know its own mother two
you think that dog didn't want to be
a parent itself the dog didn't want to
be a father or a mother depending on its
gender
you think that dog doesn't want to have
sexual relations within its own species
you know and to compete with other
members of those species how are you
gonna provide that
you can you can take away the wild from
an animal you can never give it back
you can [ __ ] an animal mentally and
physically
so that it can't survive in the wild but
can you do the reverse
it's so strange to me that that vegans
themselves are so
deeply conditioned by speciesism that
they see these problems
when it's a monkey or a lion but they
don't see it or they refuse to see it
when it's a cat or a dog and the excuse
is i love my dog i love my cat
the hell you do okay what what does it
mean to love a lion
it means you respect it enough to give
it its autonomy
and its independence and to live in the
wild at least most of the time
let's just uh kick this off with a
hypothetical
you're vegan you go to a vegan protest
you meet someone else who introduces
themselves as vegan
you decide to go back to this guy's
house
he owns a cat you think okay that's
normal
there are there are vegans who own cats
uh and you ask him
so tell me um do you buy
cat food that's made out of dead animals
do you buy
you know a tin can that has a chopped up
cow with chopped up lamb in it you know
what do you
what do you do with this cat you do you
try to feed the cat a vegan diet
he says you no no no i also have pet
rats
oh really okay well that's that's not so
unusual these days you meet vegans who
keep rats as pets but you know um
what do you mean and he says here let me
show you
he takes you upstairs and he has two
rooms in his house
one is full of cages with his pet rats
and the other is for his cats to lie
around in
he says yeah i raise the rats over here
then every day i take a few of them kill
them
and feed them to my pet cats in the
other room
i think you would be horrified
i think that anyone would be horrified
not just vegans i think a meat eater
would find that
psychologically disturbing and i think
the average vegan
would find that ethically wrong
why why is it that the same people
who make excuses for buying
a dead cow cut up
and put into a little metal can to feed
to a cat which is completely unnatural
in the wild a cat would never kill
and eat a cow that those same people
think
it's immoral for you as a vegan
to kill a rat to feed your cat or to
kill rats under any circumstances
i have an earlier video on this channel
that i encourage you to go back and take
a look at
that's called vegans kill rats a lot of
people misunderstood the point of that
video
i do not believe that killing rats is
okay
i do not believe that vivisection on
rats is okay i'm morally opposed to all
vivisection
but i am willing to talk about
the ethical contradictions difficulties
and paradoxes
that being a vegan leads us into and
one of those paradoxes of course is the
whole paradigm
of pet ownership and domesticated
animals
within veganism why is it
that there's such a difference between
the excuses these vegans make
for house pets such as dogs and cats and
the way they regard
a monkey captivity
all right if i had a monkey in my
apartment here
you would not give a [ __ ] if i told you
that the monkey was happy
doesn't matter my perspective does not
matter
any of you would be asking the hard
questions you'd be saying well look
um you know you say this monkey is happy
but uh you know it doesn't really have
the kind of habitat it would have in the
wild oh no no don't worry it's happy i
can even show you photographs on
instagram i can film him and put him on
youtube and show you how happy he is
maybe i can even compare him to monkeys
being kept in a cage
the conditions at the zoo or the
conditions at the lab and say look my
monkey is really happy
i treat him better than than some other
monkeys maybe my next door neighbor has
a monkey that's being kept in much worse
conditions
i can compare that the comparisons are
irrelevant people seem to recognize that
this is
creepy this is immoral this is wrong
when it's a monkey on the couch when
it's a dolphin
in that scientist's tank i've heard
about people trying to keep
uh goats as pets i've met one person
who kept goats as pets you know goats
in anything resembling the wild you know
the violent
territorial instincts the competitions
between the males
you know rutting bucks the the the males
butting heads and so on what do
what are you going to do to control
those instincts
to turn this defiant
independent animal into your toy
into your slave into your play thing
it's sick domestication of animals as
your companions
is sick
[Laughter]
and if you claim your pet dog is happy
that is every bit as absurd to me as if
you claimed
your pet goat was happy
your pet lion was happy your
pet ape was happy
the hell it is the difference for us as
vegans or just as people who own pets
really is the juxtaposition between
animals that we still think of as wild
versus animals where we have forgotten
or lost the reference point for
wilderness
as i say i think pigs are an example
along with cats and dogs
where people including vegans have given
into a speciesist mentality
and thus justify a form of slavery
without even
thinking it through because they do not
when they think of a pig
whether as a cute piglet or as a farm
animal they do
not think of a wild boar you're vegan
you own a dog
is your dog spayed or neutered
[Music]
really think about what that means if i
owned a chimpanzee as a pet
would it be neutered would i take it and
perform
a medical operation on it to deprive it
of its natural instincts and behaviors
so that it could be a better companion
it's so easy for people to think that
way to question that way
when it's a monkey or a lion they'd say
oh well this is immoral
having a lion with its balls chopped off
a neutered lion you know kept in a cage
or kept in your living room just to
amuse you
oh that's that's immoral but a cat
doing the same thing with a house cat
you see this is morally acceptable why
that is speciesism for all of the
bs talk about speciesism and slavery
that difference that excuse you're
making for a dog or a house cat that you
wouldn't make for a lion
or you wouldn't make for a chimpanzee
that is real speciesism
and it's really a problem within
veganism
it's very troubling when people make
videos that are
difficult and hard to understand
and it is my goal to make videos that
are relatable
and make you the viewer
feel engaged and happy with the content
providing content to you is the most
important thing in my life and
it's very special that i'm able to share
this communication with you